#Design

##Introduction

Overview
The Syntactic Sugar game engine is a platform for developing 2-D grid-based games. This engine is designed to facilitate a grid-based game area upon which background objects can be placed, and in which characters and enemies can fluidly move from tile to tile. The primary goal for this project is to make an engine with which it is easy to make a tower defense game (with an interface that is intuitive for a designer as opposed to a developer or programmer), while still extending functionality to allow the creation of other grid-based games that may or may not fall into the category of tower defense (such as pac-man, or possibly even simple platformers/puzzle games).
In order to do this, the core game consists of two types of functionality extended to objects – a strongly defined hierarchy, which defines basic objects such as a tile or an enemy, and a dynamically compositional approach to less basic functionality, such as the property of having health or the property of applying some type of status effect. The hierarchy for game objects is programmed directly in, while the components, on the other hand, are a structure that consist of objects that may be added to or removed from an object at runtime, removing the need to explicitly define all the functionality that an object has in code. This allows the user to define in the editor a variety of functionality for an object, without having to do programming of their own, as they can implement an already extant general kind of functionality for an object simply by attaching a new component to it.
This rigid-soft dichotomy fits the needs of a grid-based game, such as a tower defense game, well. The engine will have to facilitate the creation of a general system where objects with variable functionality can be placed in predictable ways. Generally speaking, a tower must be placed on a tile, and it will affect the path that enemies will flow in a predictable way. However, the tower may have any combination of components that describe how it may have health, or do damage in a certain way, or apply some type of status effect. Therefore, using a hierarchy for the rigid types of interactions that a tower must handle, while dynamically adding functionality to the tower for the properties that the tower may or may not have, allows the user to add any combination of these properties to an object without writing new code. The same general logic applies to enemies, which must traverse the grid in some predictable way, but may have some combination of other properties, which each in themselves have defined functionality, but may or may not be attached to any particular object. 
The Syntactic Sugar game engine is defined, generally speaking, for games that function like tower defense, providing functionality for grid-based movement, object spawning, and level change, in addition to modular functionality for some number of properties that these objects may have. However, the game engine will with these general properties ideally be able to handle a large variety of 2-D grid-based games that possess similarities to a tower defense game but do not fit in the genre. This extendability will provide a large amount of utility to this engine, allowing users to create a variety of games with the features that they desire.
